fix: add create agent, handlers and reply types (#1081)
novuhq/docs: content/docs/agents/setup-your-agent/connect-your-code/reply-types.mdx

pageTitle: 'Novu Agents Reply Types'
description: 'Choose and send the right reply types from your agent handlers.'
---

The public reply API is `ctx.reply(content, options?)`. The content argument must be either a plain text string, markdown value or a `ChatElement` card. File attachments are passed in the optional second argument.

## Plain text

The most basic reply is a plain text string.

```typescript
await ctx.reply('Hello! How can I help?');
```

## Markdown

Markdown is supported for rich text replies. Use markdown to format your replies with headings, lists, links, and other rich text elements.

```typescript
await ctx.reply('**Report generated.** See the attached PDF.');
```

## Sending attachments

> You can include files in your markdown or plain text replies. The files will be displayed as inline attachments in the reply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can include files in your markdown or plain text replies. The files are displayed as inline attachments in the reply.
```

<Callout type="info">
  Attachment files are limited to 25 MB per file. Files are only supported with string/markdown replies, not card replies. Provide each file with exactly one of url or data properties.
</Callout>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

File reference type:

```tsx 
type FileRef = {
  filename: string;
  mimeType?: string;
  data?: string | Uint8Array | ArrayBuffer | Blob;
  url?: string;
};
```

Use `url` for files larger than a few megabytes. Novu fetches public HTTP(S) URLs server-side, and uploads the resulting file to the provider. Use `data` for small generated files that your agent already has in memory.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```tsx
// Public URL: recommended for larger files
await ctx.reply('Here is your report.', {
  files: [{ filename: 'report.pdf', mimeType: 'application/pdf', url: reportUrl }],
});

// Inline binary data: useful for generated files
const csv = new TextEncoder().encode('name,total\nNovu,42');
await ctx.reply('CSV generated.', {
  files: [{ filename: 'report.csv', mimeType: 'text/csv', data: csv }],
});

// Node Buffer also works because Buffer extends Uint8Array
const screenshot = await page.screenshot();
await ctx.reply('Screenshot attached.', {
  files: [{ filename: 'screenshot.png', mimeType: 'image/png', data: screenshot }],
});
```

Inline `data` can also be a base64 string, but passing binary values such as `Uint8Array`, `ArrayBuffer`, `Blob`, or a Node `Buffer` is usually easier when working with AI SDKs, PDF generators, screenshots, audio, or other generated files.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Interactive cards

> Cards are rich, structured messages with buttons, dropdowns, links, and more. They can be built using **function calls** or **JSX**.

Reviewer: Do not use bold to emphasize. Use italics.

> **Function call API:**

Reviewer: Do not use bold as headings. Make this and the next bold item h3s.

> ```tsx

Reviewer: Each code block need a code block before it for context.

import {
  Card, Button, CardText, Actions,
  Select, SelectOption, Divider, CardLink,
} from '@novu/framework';

await ctx.reply(Card({ title: 'Order #1234', children: [
  CardText('Your order is ready for pickup.'),
  Divider(),
  Actions([
    Button({ id: 'ack', label: 'Acknowledge' }),
    Button({ id: 'escalate', label: 'Escalate', style: 'danger' }),
  ]),
  CardLink({ url: 'https://example.com/order/1234', children: 'View details' }),
] }));
```

**JSX API** (configure `tsconfig.json` with `"jsxImportSource": "@novu/framework"`):

```tsx
import {
  Card, Button, CardText, Actions,
  Select, SelectOption, Divider, CardLink,
} from '@novu/framework';

await ctx.reply(
  <Card title="Order #1234">
    <CardText>Your order is ready for pickup.</CardText>
    <Divider />
    <Actions>
      <Button id="ack" label="Acknowledge" />
      <Button id="escalate" label="Escalate" style="danger" />
    </Actions>
    <CardLink url="https://example.com/order/1234">View details</CardLink>
  </Card>
);
```

When a user clicks a button or selects a dropdown value, your `onAction` handler fires with the `actionId` and `value`.

### Available card components

> 

Reviewer: Add context paragraph before table.
